Protocol integration suggestions (#57)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf: draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf.md

# OPRF Protocol {#protocol}

In this section we describe the OPRF and VOPRF protocols. Recall that such a

> protocol takes place between a verifier (V) and a prover (P). We may commonly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
protocol takes place between a verifier (V) and a prover (P). Commonly, V is a client and P is a server, and so we use these names interchangeably throughout.
```

think of the verifier as the client, and the prover as the server in the
interaction (we will use these names interchangeably throughout). The server

> holds a key k for a PRF. The protocol allows the client to learn PRF evaluations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
holds a secret key k for a PRF. The protocol allows the client to learn PRF evaluations
```

> on chosen inputs x without revealing x to the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on chosen inputs x in such a way that the server learns nothing of x.
```

perform multiple VOPRF evaluations in one go, whilst only constructing one NIZK
proof object.

## Design

Let GG be an additive group of prime-order p, let GF(p) be the Galois field
defined by the integers modulo p. Define distinct hash functions H_1 and H_2,
where H_1 maps arbitrary input onto GG and H_2 maps arbitrary input to a
fixed-length output, e.g., SHA256. All hash functions in the protocol are
modeled as random oracles. Let L be the security parameter. Let k be the
prover's secret key, and Y = kG be its corresponding 'public key' for some fixed
generator G taken from the description of the group GG. This public key Y is
also referred to as a commitment to the OPRF key k, and the pair (G,Y) as a
commitment pair. Let x be the verifier's input to the OPRF protocol (commonly,
it is a random L-bit string, though this is not required).

The OPRF protocol begins with V blinding its input for the OPRF evaluator such
that it appears uniformly distributed GG. The latter then applies its secret key
to the blinded value and returns the result. To finish the computation, V then
removes its blind and hashes the result (along with a domain separating label

> lbl) using H_2 to yield an output. This flow is illustrated below. We use the

Reviewer: Can we use `DST` instead of `lbl` (to match hash-to-curve)?

The security of our construction is discussed in more detail in
{{protocol-sec}}.

## Protocol functionality

This protocol may be decomposed into a series of steps, as described below:

- OPRF_Setup(l): Let GG=GG(l) be a group with a prime-order p=p(l) (e.g., p is
  l-bits long). Randomly sample an integer k in GF(p) and output (k,p)
- OPRF_Blind(x): Compute and return a blind, r, and blinded representation of x
  in GG, denoted M.
- OPRF_Eval(k,M,h?): Evaluates on input M using secret key k to produce Z, the
  input h is optional and equal to the cofactor of an elliptic curve. If h is
  not provided then it defaults to 1.
- OPRF_Unblind(r,Z): Unblind blinded OPRF evaluation Z with blind r, yielding N
  and output N.
- OPRF_Finalize(x,N): Finalize N to produce the output H_2(lbl,x,N) for some
  fixed label denoted by lbl.

For verifiability (VOPRF) we modify the algorithms of VOPRF_Setup, VOPRF_Eval
and VOPRF_Unblind to be the following:

> - VOPRF_Setup(l): Run (k,p) = OPRF_Setup(l), compute Y = kG, where G is a

Reviewer: (We should probably apply this to all expressions.)

 x: PRF input string.
 N: An element in GG.
 aux: Arbitrary auxiliary data

Output:

 y: Random element in {0,1}^L.

Steps:

>  1. lbl := "oprf_derive_output"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. DST := "oprf_derive_output"
```

>  2. dk := H_2(lbl, x .. N)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. dk := H_2(DST, x .. N)
```

6. P sends (Z, D) to V.
7. V ensures that 1 = DLEQ_Verify(G,Y,M,Z,D). If not, V outputs an error.
8. V unblinds Z to compute N = r^(-1)Z = kX.

> 9. V outputs the pair H_2(lbl, x .. N).

Reviewer: This usage of HMAC is interesting! Could we not get the same result by computing H(lbl || x .. N)?

Author: Yeah that would be the same, I was just trying to reinforce the difference between the key and the input?

- GG: secp521r1 {{SEC2}}
- H_1: P521-SHA512-SSWU-RO {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}}
  - label: voprf_h2c
- H_2: HMAC_SHA512 {{RFC2104}}
- H_3: SHA512
- H_4: SHA512
- H_5: HKDF-Expand-SHA512

We remark that the 'label' field is necessary for domain separation of the
hash-to-curve functionality.

# Recommended protocol integration

We describe some recommendations and suggestions on the topic of integrating the
(V)OPRF protocol from {{protocol}} into wider protocols. It should be noted that
since {{JKK14}} provides a security proof of the VPRF construction in the UC
security model, then any UC-secure protocol that uses the OPRF construction as
an atomic instantiation will remain UC-secure.

> As a result we recommend that any protocol that wishes to include an OPRF stage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, it is RECOMMENDED that any protocol that wishes to include an OPRF stage
```

## Client-specific considerations

### Inputs

The client input to the OPRF evaluation phase is a set of bytes x. These bytes
do not have to be uniformly distributed. However, we should note that if the
bytes are sampled from a predictable distribution, then it is likely that the
server will also be able to predict the client's input to the OPRF. Therefore
the utility of client privacy is reduced somewhat.

### Output

The client receives y = H_2(lbl, x .. N) at the end of the protocol. We suggest
that clients store the pair (x, y) as bytes. This allows the client to use the
the output of the protocol in conjunction with the input used to create it
later.

### Messages

The client message contains a group element and should be encoded as bytes. In
the elliptic curve setting this corresponds to an encoded curve point. Both
compressed and uncompressed point encodings should be supported by the server.
The length of the point encoding should be enough to determine the encoding of
the point.

## Server-specific considerations

### Setup

As mentioned previously, the server should pick a single group instantiation and
advertise this as the only way of evaluating the OPRF.

> ### Inputs

Reviewer: I think we should drop this section. Maybe it should just be a part of the Privacy pass spec?

function that maps arbitrary inputs x (as bytes) to uniformly chosen points in
the curve.

In the security proof of the construction H1 is modeled as a random oracle. This

> implies that any instantiation of H1 must e pre-image and collision resistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
implies that any instantiation of H1 must be pre-image and collision resistant.
```
